Admin overview config overviews (#6482)
knative/docs: docs/versioned/admin/admin-overview.md

---
# Overview

This page provides guidance for administrators on how to manage Knative on an existing Kubernetes cluster. Knative administrators install and configure both or either of the Serving and Eventing components along with default or preferred plugins.

> Knative developers primarily manage the core Kubernetes objects defined by administrators. The list is many, but include containers and pods, services, networking, identity, and storage. Developers also define functions with the Knative Functions programming model.

Reviewer: Also, developers using Knative shouldn't need to interact directly with pods, services or networking very much.  I'd combine the below paragraph and this one:

```suggestion
Administrators can use Knative to provide developers with a simple experience for interacting with clusters and deploying applications. In this model, developers primarily interact with Knative resources like Services, Brokers, and Triggers. Because Knative can interoperate with core Kubernetes objects, developers can also use existing Kubernetes tools such as pods, services, networking, identity, and storage where needed. Developers looking to further simplify the deployment experience can define functions with the Knative Functions programming model.  The following illustration shows the roles of administrators and developers in this model:
```

Of particular interest to cluster administrators is that Knative supports customizable _default values_ on the parameters defined in resource YAML files. These configurations reduce the amount of environment configuration tasks developers needs to consider.

## Installation decisions

See the [Installation roadmap](../install/README.md#installation-roadmap) for prerequisites and installation steps. Your first installation decision is whether to use a YAML-based installation or use the Knative Operator. The Knative Operator is a custom controller that extends the Kubernetes API to install Knative components. If you just need to get acquainted with Knative at this time, you can install the [quickstart](../getting-started/quickstart-install.md).

> Knative installations are not permanent and you can install clusters differently depending on the situation. Although switching services and applications in real time may be possible, a best practice is to start with a new cluster.

Reviewer: I'm not sure what "are not permanent" is supposed to imply.  Maybe "The method you use to install Knative is not permanent ..."?

I think the second sentence also slightly missed my point -- "Although transitioning between installation methods on one cluster is possible, new installations on separate clusters is the better-tested and officially supported approach.

This page provides guidance for administrators on how to manage Knative on an existing Kubernetes cluster.

> ```mermaid

Reviewer: I think we need at least a sentence or two of explanation before just dropping the diagram on folks.  (Particularly since it's a fairly big diagram.)

I think some color-coding would help substantially -- I'd suggest different colors for:

* Actors (developers and administrators)
* Developer-facing abstractions (Serving & Eventing)
* Make the "action" blocks have a transparent background when rendered.

    net-impl --- net-istio & net-contour & net-gateway-api
    event-impl --- event-kafka & event-rabbitmq & event-nats
```

As a cluster administrator, your responsibilities include managing the Kubernetes environment, installing cluster-wide components, and enabling developers to deploy applications on the cluster. Knative aims to simplify developer tasks, while aligning with existing management tools and processes.

Knative includes a plugin system to integrate with existing infrastructure in the cluster, enabling Knative resources such as Routes and Brokers to be implemented using one of multiple underlying suppliers. For example, a Knative Eventing app can deliver events to a Broker that triggers a function based on the received event. In a testing cluster, the delivery might use an in-memory option, while a staging or production environment might use a cloud-provided Kafka service.

Of particular interest to cluster administrators is that Knative supports customizable _default values_ on the parameters defined in resource YAML files. These configurations reduce the amount of environment configuration tasks developers needs to consider.

> ## Installations

Author: For a more generic sense, but its a short paragraph and I've picked "Installation decisions"

This page provides guidance for administrators on how to manage Knative on an existing Kubernetes cluster.

```mermaid
---
config:
  theme: redux
---
flowchart TD
    A(["Administrator"]) --> B{"Knative"}

>     B --> C["Knative Serving"] & D["Knative Eventing"]

Reviewer: This doesn't exactly match what I was imagining for the "duck analogy" (which doesn't seem to show up in the text).

I was thinking of something more like:

```suggestion
```mermaid
---
config:
  theme: redux
---
flowchart TD
    Dev(["Application Developers"])
    dev-acts@{ shape: text, label: "Manages k8s objects defined by" }
    subgraph Knative
        Serving
        Eventing
    end
    subgraph Plugins
        net-istio["Istio"]
        net-contour["Contour"]
        net-gateway-api["Gateway API"]
        event-kafka["Kafka"]
        event-rabbitmq["RabbitMQ"]
        event-nats["NATS"]
    end
    event-impl@{ shape: text, label: "implements" }
    net-impl@{ shape: text, label: "implements" }
    admin-acts@{ shape: text, label: "Installs and configures" }
    Admin(["Cluster Administrators"])

    Dev --- dev-acts
    dev-acts --> Serving & Eventing
    
    admin-acts --- Admin
    Plugins & Knative --- admin-acts
    %% The ~~~ ... --> syntax is used to force backwards arrows;
    %% See https://github.com/mermaid-js/mermaid/issues/2629 for details.
    Serving ~~~ net-impl --> Serving
    Eventing ~~~ event-impl --> Eventing

    net-impl --- net-istio & net-contour & net-gateway-api
    event-impl --- event-kafka & event-rabbitmq & event-nats
```

Author: Thanks - That was just a placeholder -- looks great

Knative uses Kubernetes YAML manifests to define and configure system components. These manifests include core resources, custom resource definitions (CRDs), and extensibility features. As with Kubernetes, these configuration resources are declarative and can be managed using the `kubectl` CLI tool or with continuous delivery tools.

> The following sections provide an overview of the current configurations procedures of interest to Administrators.

Reviewer: I'm still not entirely sold on duplicating the navigation in prose here.  I realize that it's tempting to have a little more explanation than what's in the titles in the left-hand navigation, but I have a maintenance concern that duplicating the navigation here will cause the two to drift out of sync over time.

Author: Yeah, even thought it's at the node level. The Eventing config overviews fell nicely into a table, I can redo for Serving and Network Options into a table.

- Using the Knative Operator

>     Some platform-wide settings can be managed declaratively using the Knative Operator, installed with the `kn` Knative CLI plugin. For more information, see [Installing CLI tools](../client/README.md)

Reviewer: The operator can be managed with our without the `kn` CLI.  However, the `kn` CLI really only works to manage operator installations, not the other options.

Author: Thanks - great clarification - added:

You can manage the operator without using the `kn` CLI. The `kn` CLI manages only operator installations.

- Using the Knative Operator

    Some platform-wide settings can be managed declaratively using the Knative Operator, installed with the `kn` Knative CLI plugin. You can manage the operator without using the `kn` CLI. The `kn` CLI manages only operator installations.

For more information, see [Installing CLI tools](../client/README.md)

Knative uses Kubernetes YAML manifests to define and configure system components. These manifests include core resources, custom resource definitions (CRDs), and extensibility features. As with Kubernetes, these configuration resources are declarative and can be managed using the `kubectl` CLI tool or with continuous delivery tools.

## Configuration summaries

The following sections provide an overview of the current configurations procedures of interest to Administrators. You make these configurations using `kubectl`, with some procedures applying YAML files.

> ### Networking

Reviewer: Since networking is a sub-facet of serving, I'd probably put "Serving" first in the list (or you can alphabetize the sections, putting "Eventing" first).

- Using the Knative Operator

    Some platform-wide settings can be managed declaratively using the Knative Operator, installed with the `kn` Knative CLI plugin. You can manage the operator without using the `kn` CLI. The `kn` CLI manages only operator installations.

For more information, see [Installing CLI tools](../client/README.md)

Knative uses Kubernetes YAML manifests to define and configure system components. These manifests include core resources, custom resource definitions (CRDs), and extensibility features. As with Kubernetes, these configuration resources are declarative and can be managed using the `kubectl` CLI tool or with continuous delivery tools.

> The following sections provide an overview of the current configurations procedures of interest to Administrators. You make these configurations using `kubectl`, with some procedures applying YAML files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following sections provide an overview of the current configuration resources of interest to Administrators. You can edit these configurations using `kubectl`; Knative installs empty ConfigMaps with these names onto the cluster.
```

I'm not sure I'd call these "procedures" (or the act of editing them "configurations").

### Serving configurations

| Configuration | ConfigMap | Description |
| -- | --- | --- |
| [Default configurations](../serving/configuration/config-defaults.md) | `config-defaults` | Default resource values such as performance, hardware, and storage settings. |
| [Deployment resources](../serving/configuration/deployment.md) | `config-deployment` | Kubernetes deployment resources that back Knative services. |
| [Domain names](../serving/using-a-custom-domain.md) | `config-domain` | Configure and publish domains. |

> | [High-availability](../serving/config-ha.md) | NA | Configure ensure that APIs stay operational if a disruption occurs. |

Reviewer: The "High Availability" and "Namespace exclusion" topics apply to _both_ Serving and Eventing.  I don't know if you want to repeat them, or pull them out into their own section.

| [Garbage collection](../serving/revisions/revision-admin-config-options.md) | `config-gc` | Disable and enable collection and set retention time values. |
| [Ingress gateway](../serving/setting-up-custom-ingress-gateway.md)| `config-istio` | For new clusters, you can configure your own gateway and underlying service. |
| [Istio authorization](../serving/istio-authorization.md) | NA | Grant authorization to your deployed Knative services. |
| [Namespace exclusion from webhook](../serving/webhook-customizations.md) | NA | For performance concerns during an upgrade. |
| [Rollout duration for revisions](../serving/configuration/rolling-out-latest-revision-configmap.md) | `config-network` | Adjust rollout durations to accommodate longer request queues. |

> | [Security - Certificates](../serving/encryption/configure-certmanager-integration.md) | NA | Describes how to manage automatic certificate provisioning. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| [Security - Certificates](../serving/encryption/configure-certmanager-integration.md) | `config-certmanager` | Describes how to manage automatic certificate provisioning. |
```

The CertManager integration has extra requirements, but it _does_ involve editing `config-certmanager`, so it's worth linking that here.
